#name=hobbit
#delay=15
#save
#info=running hobbit script
l.rst
l.write"In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. Not a nasty, d"
l.write"irty, wet hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy sm"
l.write"ell, nor yet a dry, bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to s"
l.write"it down on or to eat: it was a hobbit-hole, and that means c"
l.write"omfort. It had a perfectly round door like a porthole, paint"
l.write"ed green, with a shiny yellow brass knob in the exact middle"
l.write". The door opened on to a tubeshaped hall like a tunnel: a v"
l.write"ery comfortable tunnel without smoke, with panelled walls, a"
l.write"nd floors tiled and carpeted, provided with polished chairs,"
l.write" and lots and lots of pegs for hats and coats - the hobbit w"
l.write"as fond of visitors. The tunnel wound on and on, going fairl"
l.write"y but not quite straight into the side of the hill - The Hil"
l.write"l, as all the people for many miles round called it - and ma"
l.write"ny little round doors opened out of it, first on one side an"
l.write"d then on another. No going upstairs for the hobbit: bedroom"
l.write"s, bathrooms, cellars, pantries (lots of these), wardrobes ("
l.write"he had whole rooms devoted to clothes), kitchens, dining-roo"
l.write"ms, all were on the same floor, and indeed on the same passa"
l.write"ge. The best rooms were all on the left-hand side (going in)"
l.write", for these were the only ones to have windows, deep-set rou"
l.write"nd windows looking over his garden and meadows beyond, slopi"
l.write"ng down to the river. This hobbit was a very well-to-do hobb"
l.write"it, and his name was Baggins. The Bagginses had lived in the"
l.write" neighbourhood of The Hill for time out of mind, and people "
l.write"considered them very respectable, not only because most of t"
l.write"hem were rich, but also because they never had any adventure"
l.write"s or did anything unexpected: you could tell what a Baggins "
l.write"would say on any question without the bother of asking him. "
l.write"This is a story of how a Baggins  had an adventure, found hi"
l.write"mself doing and saying things altogether unexpected. He may "
l.write"have lost the neighbours' respect, but he gained-well, you w"
l.write"ill see whether he gained anything in the end. The mother of"
l.write" our particular hobbit ... what is a hobbit? I suppose hobbi"
l.write"ts need some description nowadays, since they have become ra"
l.write"re and shy of the Big People, as they call us. They are (or "
l.write"were) a little people, about half our height, and smaller th"
l.write"an the bearded Dwarves. Hobbits have no beards. There is lit"
l.write"tle or no magic about them, except the ordinary everyday sor"
l.write"t which helps them to disappear quietly and quickly when lar"
l.write"ge stupid folk like you and me come blundering along, making"
l.write" a noise like elephants which they can hear a mile off. They"
l.write" are inclined to be at in the stomach; they dress in bright "
l.write"colours (chiefly green and yellow); wear no shoes, because t"
l.write"heir feet grow natural leathery soles and thick warm brown h"
l.write"air like the stuff on their heads (which is curly); have lon"
l.write"g clever brown fingers, goodnatured faces, and laugh deep fr"
l.write"uity laughs (especially after dinner, which they have twice "
l.write"a day when they can get it). Now you know enough to go on wi"
l.write"th. As I was saying, the mother of this hobbit - of Bilbo Ba"
l.write"ggins, that is - was the fabulous Belladonna Took, one of th"
l.write"e three remarkable daughters of the Old Took, head of the ho"
l.write"bbits who lived across The Water, the small river that ran a"
l.write"t the foot of The Hill. It was often said (in other families"
l.write") that long ago one of the Took ancestors must have taken a "
l.write"fairy wife. That was, of course, absurd, but certainly there"
l.write" was still something not entirely hobbitlike about them, - a"
l.write"nd once in a while members of the Took-clan would go and hav"
l.write"e adventures.  "
#info=this should be the whole thing... #nice
l.dump
